Simple interpreter for a JS-like language

# Motivation
This project was inspired by [Write a C compiler](https://github.com/lotabout/write-a-C-interpreter)

However, I absolutely despise the C language and wanted to make interpret my favourite coding language, Javascript. This project was really fun and showed that writing a simple interpreter was not that hard. Just a little bit of theory and a lot of recursion.

# How I built it

The interpreter is split up into 3 main parts: the lexer, the parser and the executer.

The lexer is responsible for converting the source code into a token stream. This handles the bulk of the whitespace, string/number differentiation, and keyword recognition. It simplifies the task for the parser by reducing down the code into its most important aspects, which is represented as a token stream.

The parser then takes this token tree and validates the grammar rules. If it follows all the syntax correctly, it spits out an Abstract Syntax Tree (AST). It's an intermediate representation of the code that structures it in a way that is manageable by our executer.

The last step of the interpreter is the execution. It takes the AST generated by our parser and executes the code. This uses a lot of function recursion to traverse through the tree. Luckily, this is the simplest step because the bulk of the work (operator precedence, synatx verification, etc) has been done by the parser. 

The interpreter.js is the main file that takes in the code from ./code.txt, and interprets the script by passing it through the lexer, parser and executor. 

## Challenges
- Implementing operator was difficult, and it required recursive descent parsing and a lot of function recursion
- Variable scoping was a challenge, but a simple stack-based data structure to keep track of variables made it much easier

## Future Improvements
- Adding more data structures like arrays, objects, classes
- Add support for while loops
- Code optimization

# Features
- Variable assignment and retrieval
- Arithmetic, boolean and comparison operators (+, -, *, /, !, &&, ||, <, <=, >, >=, !=, ==)
- Basic control flow (if, else chains)
- Function declaration and invocation
- While loops (no for loops; any for loop can be rewritten using while; reduces complexity of parser)
- Support for strings and numbers
- Built-in print keyword for output

# How to run the code
All the code is in the code.txt file. To run the interpreter, simply run 
```bash
node interpreter.js
```

# Resources & Acknowledgements
These resources were very helfpul for understanding interpreter theory
- https://github.com/lotabout/write-a-C-interpreter
- https://www.2am.tech/blog/building-a-language-interpreter-in-javascript
- https://daily.dev/blog/javascript-interpreter-basics-for-developers
